DOC-887: SSH usernames (#5091)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/architecture/ssh-usernames.md

---

> sidebar_label: "SSH Usernames"

Reviewer: Another possible location to include this page is under the Manage Clusters > SSH Keys section. What do you think?

Author: Yeah, that seems better. Now moved.

title: "SSH Usernames"
description:
  "A list of the Secure Shell (SSH) usernames created on Kubernetes nodes for each provider and operating system pack
  available in Palette."
icon: ""
hide_table_of_contents: false
sidebar_position: 60
---

This page lists the Secure Shell (SSH) user names created on Kubernetes nodes, which vary by provider and operating
system.

> These user names are relevant when deploying [SSH key pairs](../clusters/cluster-management/ssh-keys.md) to your
> Kubernetes cluster through Palette.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These user names are relevant when using [SSH key pairs](../clusters/cluster-management/ssh-keys.md) with your Palette host clusters.
```
maybe?

> ## Public Clouds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Public Cloud
```

| Provider      | Operating System Pack          | SSH Username |
| ------------- | ------------------------------ | ------------ |
| **AWS EKS**   | **Amazon EKS optimized Linux** | `ec2-user`   |
| **Azure AKS** | **Linux**                      | `azureuser`  |
| **GCP GKE**   | **Container-Optimized OS**     | N/A          |

#### SSH Configuration on GCP GKE

It is not possible to configure GCP GKE clusters with an SSH key during cluster creation. If SSH access to your GCP GKE
nodes is critical, consider one of the following options:

- Configure project or node-level metadata to include your SSH key. Refer to
  [Predefined and custom metadata keys](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/metadata/overview#predefined-and-custom-metadata-keys)
  for guidance.

- Enable OS Login and associate your SSH key with your IAM identity. Refer to
  [How OS Login works](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/oslogin#how_os_login_works) for guidance.

- Customize startup scripts or metadata to add your SSH key during node creation in a managed instance group. Refer to
  [Using startup scripts on Linux VMs](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/startup-scripts/linux) for
  guidance.

> ## Data Center

Reviewer: Maybe we could add self-hosted Palette as well? If you deploy a self-hosted instance of Palette using VMware, the username will be `spectro` :)

Author: @caroldelwing I just don't know how to verify all of those, or even which operating systems can be used.

Author: Maybe I'm not understanding this @caroldelwing.

What exactly has the username `spectro`? Is it the Kubernetes nodes used to host Palette (for self-hosted)?

Author: As discussed in Slack, we'll keep this article in the Palette host cluster scope, and not involve self-hosted Palette instances for now.

| Provider           | Operating System Pack | SSH Username |
| ------------------ | --------------------- | ------------ |
| **MAAS**           | **Ubuntu**            | `ubuntu`     |
| **Openstack**      | **Ubuntu**            | `ubuntu`     |
| **VMware vSphere** | **Ubuntu**            | `ubuntu`     |
| **VMware vSphere** | **CentOS**            | `centos`     |

## Edge

This is dependent on the operating system you provide for your edge hosts using either
[Agent Mode](../deployment-modes/agent-mode/agent-mode.md) or

> [Provider images](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-provider-images.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[EdgeForge](../clusters/edge/edgeforge-workflow/palette-canvos/build-provider-images.md).
```

## Resources

> - [SSH key pairs](../clusters/cluster-management/ssh-keys.md)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [SSH Keys](../clusters/cluster-management/ssh-keys.md)
```
